Nowadays the world is making tremendous growth with the help of various technologies such as advanced computers, self-driving vehicles, robot-based surgeries, and many more. This technology has adverse effect on the environment which is leading to polluting natural resources such as AIR and WATER. Already environmentalists warn the world about global warming which can trigger natural calamities such as Earthquakes or tsunamis. Polluted Air or water can further degrade health conditions or respiratory disease patients such as asthma and lung infections and this can affect normal people’s health. To reduce air pollution government is taking extreme steps to reduce all industrial equipment that emits carbon. Carbon is the main enemy of harming the ozone layer which is playing an important role in protecting the world from dangerous sunlight. The most challenging and mysterious stage of qualitative research is data analysis. As a result, understanding these processes is critical for performing qualitative research as well as reading, comprehending, and interpreting it. Using exploratory data analysis (EDA), data visualization, and data research, this project on the EPA's Air Quality System (AQS) seeks to get comprehensive insights into the air quality measurements and trends across diverse locations and contaminants. To better understand the dynamics of air quality, develop policies, and make informed decisions, the research analyses the public AQS data to seek out patterns, anomalies, and potential links in the data. Using rigorous EDA approaches and compelling visualizations, the project seeks to identify significant findings about pollutant concentrations, temporal fluctuations, spatial distributions, and potential implications for public health and the environment.
